---
layout: post
title: "Dinner at The Dumpling Lady"
---
I parked at the main entrance of Optimist Hall, an earnestly marketed, high-gloss food hall in NoDa, feeling no small amount of apprehension. Judging by the looks of the other drivers, I wasn’t the only one feeling this way. This was our first time picking up food since the stay-at-home order in North Carolina had put a stop to normal restaurant operations. Luckily, the process was straightforward: I gave my name to the attendant, and a couple minutes later, she appeared bearing my food. Nothing to worry about.

I was patronizing The Dumpling Lady, a wife-and-husband venture that is the creation of Zhang Qian. She hails from China’s Sichuan province, which has in recent years gained a reputation for its lip-numbing peppercorn. (Sichuan and its capital Chengdu are one of many centers of gastronomy in China. Each has its own cadre of partisans and detractors. Ask a proud Shanghai-er about Beijing fare, and the words “greasy,” “filling” and “unimaginative” will probably come up.) In 2015, Zhang came to Charlotte, following her fiancé and soon-to-be business partner John Nisbet; unsatisfied with teaching at a charter school, she experimented with selling her dumplings and found that she had struck a chord. A food truck followed, and then a permanent stand in the food hall.

Zhang’s trajectory is an increasingly common one, owing in part to a changing media landscape. As local newspapers have reduced or eliminated their arts and culture reporting, a cottage industry of bloggers and influencers has emerged to fill the gap. (A related phenomenon is the ever-growing roster of cooking stars on YouTube, like Binging with Babish and the chefs of the Bon Appétit Test Kitchen.) Intent on discovering the next big thing in food, they want to know what’s new, and to tell their followers about it. This, coupled with the emergence of restaurant-going as a hobby, has meant that something like a food truck can quickly amass a loyal following. And when it comes time for expansion, the obvious choice might not be a standalone location. Instead, it might be at a place [like](https://businessnc.com/food-halls-popping-up-in-charlotte-and-raleigh/) Optimist Hall, alongside a number of other vendors.

The menu is small but judicious. I went with the pork and chive and the sweet pork dumplings. The fatty goodness of the former was streaked with veins of Chinese chive, which is the chive’s grassier, more prolific cousin; its flavor is pungent, somewhere between garlic and a freshly-mown lawn. The sweet pork dumplings were a different experience altogether. Their wrappers, resembling pleated volcanoes, held a paste of pork belly and mushroom. My dad said that the filling reminded him of liver (not at all an insult for him); he was probably picking up on the barbeque powder. I also slurped down some wheat noodles doused in chili oil and studded with bits of spiced lamb. Even after twenty minutes in the footwell of my car and a brief reheating, there was no trace of sogginess---a testament to the quality of Zhang’s locally-sourced ingredients.

I talked to Nisbet about The Dumpling Lady’s fortunes during this pandemic. One of their goals was to keep everyone on the payroll, and so far, they haven’t had to fire a single employee---an incredible feat by any measure. I asked Nisbet what their core demographic was before the pandemic, and with the candor of an appreciative businessman, he responded it was mostly 20 to 44-year-olds of above average income. This is a demographic I’m sure many restaurant owners would kill for right now: digitally-literate Millennials for whom the Internet is a natural way of interacting with the world. Well before they were forced online, The Dumpling Lady had already used Instagram to announce each week’s truck schedule, and they’d set up an online ordering system. When they were forced to halt in-person orders, their customers already knew what to do.

I reckon it’s places like these---places with low overhead, serving clean, satisfying food to a youthful clientele---that stand the best chance of surviving and perhaps even thriving in the coming months.

