---
layout: post
title: "Playing By The Rules"
---
This week, I visited three restaurants: Luna’s Living Kitchen, The Stanley and Bardo.

I meant to visit Living Kitchen last week, but it was closed then. I’ll spare you any more food description. I truly don’t have in me to whip up pages of prose about the *aroma* of a dish or its mouthfeel. Who even uses a word like “aroma” anyways? Look---the food was good. To be honest, I wasn’t expecting much of such earth-y, healthful food as cashew cheese and caramelized onions atop a buckwheat and flaxseed “crust,” or a quinoa and millet patty with hummus, guac and sprouts. On the menu, these dishes are listed under the “pizza” and “burger” subheadings. If anyone besides a vegan wanted a pizza, they’d go to an actual pizza place. The same goes for burgers. So why even pretend that’s what you’re selling?

What you’re actually selling is a flatbread and a sandwich. There’s no shame in that! It was a damn good sandwich. I don’t know a single meat-eater who would turn up their noses at chipotle hummus and guac between two slices of sourdough. (You can also get the “burger” in a bun, but I prefer the sourdough.) Also, who wouldn’t like caramelized onions and cheesy spread on what is essentially a high fiber tortilla? It’s only when you start overdetermining things with words like “pizza” and “burger” that you begin to lose your audience. I seriously doubt the effectiveness of such a marketing strategy, whether the goal is to drive traffic to your restaurant or to spread the good word of veganism to the wider public. Like, who are you even appealing to? Put yourself in the shoes of someone who’s deciding what to order for lunch. If she’s in the mood for a burger, her first choice certainly ain’t gonna be the quinoa patty. But what if her choice wasn’t between a burger and a copy of a burger but between a burger and a sandwich---a sandwich that was carefully crafted and filling? I dunno about you, but I might be persuaded to go for the latter.

The Stanley and Bardo were supposed to be part of my experimental food week, but they’re here now. Deal with it. They’re both small-plate concepts focused on fresh, local ingredients. The first cultivates a down-home, gathering place sort of vibe whereas the second gives off a more serious, high-concept vibe. Both deserve praise for putting so much attention to detail and plating into their take-out orders. Of course, it wasn’t at the level I’d expect of a sit-down experience, which is totally and completely OK. In fact, it was part of the fun. One thing about eating such delicate and finely-wrought dishes in the comfort of your own home is that you get to decide *how* you’ll eat them, free of the social strictures of a dining room. This is especially the case when the people you’re eating with---in my case, it was my parents---don’t dine out very often and as a result don’t have so many hang ups about the “proper” way of doing things.

At the end of both meals, we were left with a table filled with all manner of dishes and bowls we had used to sample and recombine the various ingredients. At least ten minutes of each meal were spent trying to figure out which powder was the marigold and which was the raspberry. “Do you know what this fruit is,” my dad would ask. In response, I’d be like “I dunno. It reminds me of the strawberries in Special K though.” Or maybe it was a pickle of ambiguous provenance that would cause me to ask “Wait, is this an apple or a carrot,” and my mom would go “I think it’s an apple, but it doesn’t taste like one.” With this one dish from The Stanley of tomatoes, cantaloupe spheres, ricotta and parmesan crisps, my mom had the idea of tearing on some basil from the back porch. Imagine doing that in a restaurant, in full view of the other diners. There was this one berry-adjacent sauce that came with the foie gras at the Stanley that we still had a lot of afterwards, so we toasted some bread to dip into it.

Here’s my suggestion: the next time you order food, why not make something of your own to go alongside? If you’re getting tacos, why not use the opportunity to try out that recipe for pico de gallo you’ve been sitting on? If you’re getting pizza, what about some roast vegetables to balance out all the grease, or some banana peppers from your pantry to use as a topping? Eat something with your fingers! Use a utensil that would otherwise get you weird looks. Don’t stop there. Whatever it is, mash it up! Bake it! Blend it! Why not? It’s your goddamn right. You paid for the food, and it’s not like the chef is going to bust into your living room to stop you. Fucking do it.

