---
layout: post
title: "Two Barbeque Places and Some Fried Chicken"
---
Everyone’s like you gotta go to Midwood Smokehouse---it’s the best barbeque in Charlotte. The original location is in Plaza Midwood, which has in the past decade undergone an economic and cultural revival. Whereas South End became a center of professional activity, Plaza Midwood took a crunchier, more hand-wrought path. Besides the smokehouse, one of the neighborhood’s most visible institutions is The Common Market, a sort of grunge-hip convenience store and deli catering to edgy millennial tastes. You know the deal---deliberately artless Taco Tuesday menus that are scrawled on cardboard, increasingly obscure IPAs, and also, like, string lights. Interestingly, their more recent expansion into South End is a bit more corporate. This much is obvious by the production levels of the locations’ respective Instagrams.

Anyways, I went to the Midwood Smokehouse in Park Road Shopping Center. It’s closer to me, and I thought if they’re doing a good job, there won’t be any difference in quality. Park Road Shopping Center is interesting in that a few years ago, they undertook a modest renovation to refresh some of the facades and widen some walkways, but that’s about it. It was prevented from doing anything more drastic because of pushback from the community, members of whom sought to retain the shopping center’s post-war vibe from when it opened in 1956. The original billboard, with its swoopy typography that recalls mid-century ease, still stands today. It’s an interesting case study in Charlotteans’ historical memory. You know, when developers talk about [“infusing”](https://www.charlotteobserver.com/charlottefive/c5-around-town/article236107878.html) Atherton Mill with the history of South End, nobody thinks to ask, “Well, wasn’t the history of South End one of brutal labor exploitation?” We’re perfectly happy as a city to paper over those less-than-photogenic moments, but apparently, a shopping center is where we draw the line.

It was a nice day when I went to pick up my food. From the parking lot, you could hear the chatter of people enjoying the late afternoon breeze, as well as the voice of a yoga instructor. 
At home, my parents and I dug into the various sides and smoked meats, and we were a bit underwhelmed. Let’s start out with the not-so-great: The hickory-smoked chicken was unremarkable. The light mustard dressing didn’t do much to elevate what was basically dry chicken. Same story with the chopped pork. Where was the moisture? Better was the brisket. The leaner cuts were decent, but the best pieces were the fatty ones that had developed a nice blackened crust. The so-called “burnt ends” were also delicious. These were morsels of brisket that had been toasted and given a lacquered appearance by a coating of barbeque sauce. They were reminiscent of the Chinese staple *hongshaorou*, or red-cooked pork belly. Chief among the meats was the jalapeño cheddar sausage. I know this sounds like a strange thing to harp on, but the casings really made all the difference. They gave the links just the right amount of chew, which is pretty essential when you’re dealing with something as rich as a cheddar sausage.

I have to say though that I had a much better barbeque experience at Sweet Lew’s, not far from Midwood’s Midwood location. They opened just a year-and-a-half ago, in a former auto shop in Belmont. On the day I went, they weren’t nearly as busy as Midwood. It’s a shame because I thought their food was really much more worthy of praise. I’m kicking myself for not trying more of their menu, because what I did get to try was fantastic. I finished dinner that night with an expanded sense of what meat could taste like. 

Their chopped pork was possessed of a distinct smokiness and porcine essence that was almost completely absent in Midwood’s rendition. Color played a big role in my judgement. Against the rather unceremonious backdrop of their plastic tub, the pork’s rosy complexion shone through. Dark, singed edges gave way to off-white and blushing meat further away from the smoke. This was nothing like the nondescript mush of a company picnic. A similar attention to flavor was obvious from the dry-rubbed pork ribs. What really made the meal for me though was the brisket. Its copious, unrepentant seams of fat shocked me with their remarkable complexity. Adding to their savory-sweetness was a pronounced undertow of cola. Go eat at Sweet Lew’s. It’s really good.

Continuing on the theme of historical memory, I thought I’d round out this week’s post with my visit to Midnight Diner. The exterior of the diner is covered completely in chrome, to the extent that it resembles a sturdy train car more than it does a restaurant. On the inside, you’ll be greeted by a black-and-white checkerboard floor, saucer-shaped lamps and like, more chrome. It’s an incredibly thorough tribute to an earlier time. My friend Abe and I chose to sit outside, where we wouldn’t be in such close proximity to each other. We set up camp in the parking lot, which afforded us a cinematic view of Uptown. He said he always got the chicken and waffles, so I got the same. We also had some coconut french toast. The fried chicken was some of the best I’d ever had.

We were both taken aback by all the development that had taken place since the last time we were there. From the parking lot, we could see at least two new apartment complexes, a new row of townhouses, and an office building in the making. I would say the only thing that hadn’t changed was Uptown, but even there, it was kind of hard to ignore the whole ass tower that wasn’t there two years ago. Emblazoned on its side in illuminated letters is “Bank of America.” Abe said he liked the tower, but I countered that it was a far cry from the bank’s actual headquarters further Uptown. In comparison to the gently sloping corporate center, which was designed by the same architect, César Pelli, as had designed the Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur, the new tower was ungainly and ill-proportioned. Abe seemed to take less issue with all the development that was going on, and I think his view is representative of many Charlotteans’ attitude right now. I’m not asking for class consciousness or anything so radical. I just wish people weren’t so easy going about it.

