---
layout: post
title: "A Good Drive"
---
I’ve been ordering more on Uber Eats and Postmates recently simply because it makes life so easy. There’s no worrying about masks and gloves and cleanliness. I don’t have to keep track of what hand has touched which surface and wait fuck I should have taken off my *left* glove instead of the right one. Of course, these problems don’t just disappear when you hit “Complete order.” They’ve just been handed off to whoever’s delivering your food. Now it’s them that has to take the risks. This is the first of a couple trade-offs that you make when you get Uber Eats.

There’s also the financial trade-off. The “service” and delivery fees can add ten or twenty dollars onto the cost of your meal, in addition to the usual tax and tip. Of the surcharge, precious little makes it to the driver. Then there’s the trade-off in quality. No food is going to be as fresh at your doorstep as it was at the restaurant. It’s going to be at least a bit soggy. This was definitely the case with my order from Sabor. Yes, this was my second time ordering from them, but considering how good it was the first time, I felt justified in doing so. I wanted to see if their non-vegetarian options were as good as their vegetarian ones.

I don’t think it was a fair comparison. By the time I finally sat down to eat, the arepa had turned sorta flaccid and the empanada shell was more bready than crispy-craggly. I had also ordered some shrimp tacos and crispy pork belly ones as well. Those I think worked better as take-out. Still, I felt let down. This really should not have surprised me. There’s really no comparing food that’s just been prepared to food that’s been sitting out for half an hour. Also, when is the second time ever as good as the first? Never.

When you order in, you’re also missing out on the possibility of a great drive. A drive at the right time of day---maybe around seven, after rush hour has died down---and with the right weather can be an incredible comfort is what I’ve discovered. I’m very late to the whole driving thing. I only got my license last summer, and by that point, many of my friends had already become confident and self-assured drivers with years of experience under their belts. Now, I relish the opportunity to be on the road, the dulcet tones of Audie Cornish and Ira Glass washing over me as I zip down some secondary highway.

Not that driving is an uncomplicated experience for me. Being Chinese-American, I can feel the beady eyes of stereotype glaring at me whenever I’m not perfectly centered in the parking spot. A white kid who’s bad at parking can just be bad at parking. Meanwhile, I fuck up once, and what does that make me? Predicable? (I’m very skeptical of the appeal that goes “As X person-of-color,” but I use it here for the sake of convenience. I also don’t get what’s up with all the talk of “white people” and their pathologies. Again, I use the shorthand of the “white kid” as a shorthand and nothing more.)

The drive to Bé-Em Asian Kitchen was almost perfect. I deliberately scheduled the pick-up so I’d be able to listen to This American Life on the way back. Apparently, however, WFAE had switched up their broadcast schedule so that seven o’clock was the Charlotte Talks slot. I cannot stand that show. The interviews are always so tepid. So it wasn’t the perfect drive, but it was pretty good. The fried shrimp with spicy sauce and signature poke bowl were fine. I regret not getting more of the pho. The cinnamon and star-anise flavored broth was exactly what I needed to get out of my quarantine funk. I am of the belief that the pho is always the best thing on the menu. If I’m in an unfamiliar place and I haven’t had anything decent to eat all day, you know I’m going with the pho.

Rounding out this week was my visit to Lucy’s Bakery and Deli, a low-key Latin-American establishment offering a variety of pastries and lunch platters. It’s located outside of Charlotte proper, in the similarly low-key suburb of Stallings. As I waited for my food, I browsed the depository of business cards at the front of the store. There was everyone from translators and immigrantion attorneys to manicurists to my friend Annika, whom I used to play with in the youth orchestra. She was offering violin lessons. At first, I was taken aback, but then I remembered she lives pretty close by. Her card listed an McGill email. At least now I know where she goes to school.

What can I say? It was good food. “Wholesome” is probably the most apt description. The chicken empanada in particular reminded me of the Greggs chicken pastry from when I used to live in London. If you know anything about British fast food, you know that Greggs is known for being greasy and inexpensive. But you know what? I have nothing but fond memories of that chicken pastry or whatever it was called. It was flaky and pleasantly golden-brown, with a golden-brown flavor. I can’t think of anything more comforting. If you can make something as tasty as that, you’ve done something right. I also had a wonderfully moist cachapa stuffed with pork and cheese and an arepa piled with ham, bacon, cheese and two eggs over easy. This was alongside a platter of shredded beef, rice, black beans and plantains. All in all a hearty lunch.

I have no revelations about “home” or culture to report so I’ll end it here. Next week, I’ll be talking about my order from the butcher shop at The Stanley, among other things.

