---
layout: post
title: "Trouble in South End"
---

When I visited Futo Buta last Thursday, the shoulder-to-shoulder dinner rush I’d come to associate with the restaurant had been evicted by a mass of kitchen hardware; this included a display fridge, stacks of earthenware and some kegs waiting to be picked up. (Maybe it was to promote a more open work environment, with less interpersonal contact?) All that remained of the dining room was a great big slab of a table and a few stools that had been lined up to make a counter. Good news was the kitchen looked busy, and there were at least a few tickets in the line.

Some background: Futo Buta is the OG ramen spot in Charlotte. It opened in 2015, which, when you think about it, is pretty late in the scheme of American ramen. After all, it was 2004 when David Chang opened Momofuku Noodle Bar in New York and showed Americans a noodle soup that didn’t come in a cup.

It’s easy to mistake the restaurant for a leasing office. It occupies the southernmost corner of a substantial apartment complex, and no fewer than nine balconies overlook its outdoor seating area. This particular complex is one of dozens that flank either side of the light rail as it runs south from the city center. Altogether, they form the newly “revitalized” South End neighborhood. Today, the area is known for its wealth of dining options--everything from tacos and Asian fusion to craft breweries and a beer garden---as well as for the “Rail Trail,” a bustling public walkway. Its archetypal resident is young, well-educated and not appreciably Southern. She works a “new economy” job, she has gay friends, and her speech is without regional inflections.

At first glance, South End might seem like a glimpse of a more urban and cosmopolitan South, one where people have access to cultural opportunities and public space. Spend enough time amongst the condos, however, and you’ll begin to suspect that something more sinister is afoot. You’ll begin to notice a striking aesthetic homogeneity that pervades every aspect of the built environment. The condos’ marketing-speak, which is couched in terms of “convenience” and “lifestyle,” will begin to grate on your nerves. What you at first took as the sunny optimism of a neighborhood on the rise begins to seem more like blissful ignorance, even self-deception. Something has gone terribly wrong in South End. This essay is an attempt to figure out what that is. Looking back at the history of the area, what patterns can we discern that might give us pause about the neighborhood’s current trajectory? What has changed? What remains the same?

\*\*\*

Standing among the joggers and dog-walkers, it’s hard to imagine that just 20 years ago, South End was a blighted warehouse district without so much as a name. As Julie Rose of WFAE [reports](https://www.wfae.org/post/surprising-story-charlottes-south-end), “South End,” or more specifically, “Historic South End,” didn’t come about until the mid-90’s, when design firm Shook Kelly undertook to rebrand the area as a destination for hip Charlotteans. The name was meant as a tongue-in-cheek nod to Charlotte’s penchant for reinvention and self-promotion, not as a tribute to any real history. It didn’t truly catch on until an effort to develop the disused Atherton Mill, when the firm convinced its very first tenant to paint “South End” onto the mill’s smokestack. This was the first of many interventions that turned Atherton Mill into what it is today: a sprawling mixed-use development with as much retail space as Newark airport and five stories of luxury accommodation.

Since the 90’s, two major developments have conspired to make South End the number one [busiest](https://realpage.com/analytics/the-nations-10-busiest-submarkets-for-construction-uptownsouth-end-charlotte-north-carolina/) market for apartment construction in the country. The first was a $475 million light rail project to connect Uptown and Interstate 485 via South End, called the Lynx Blue Line. It opened to riders in November of 2007, after a brutal construction period mired in cost overruns and political controversy. There was, at one point, a [campaign](https://www.bizjournals.com/charlotte/stories/2007/02/26/daily32.html) to repeal the Mecklenburg County transit tax that had helped to fund the light rail. (The referendum failed by a 70/30 split. Had it passed, it would have slashed the bus operating budget by 70%.) As Rose reports, the Blue Line caused property values in South End to double---that is, before the housing bubble burst. In the years following, there would be a fallow period, lasting until around 2012, followed by an enormous resurgence of development. The [numbers](https://www.wfae.org/post/block-block-south-end-then-and-now) are startling: In 2007, South End residents owned 1,400 homes of any size or kind. In 2017, that number was 6,100, in addition to 11,000 rentals and 4,500 apartments in various stages of completion. Before-and-after [photos](https://charlottenc.gov/cats/transit-planning/2030-plan/Pages/easy-to-miss.aspx) from the city show grassy, overgrown lots being replaced with prodigious expanses of pavement and prosperity. There’s even [talk](https://www.bizjournals.com/charlotte/news/2020/03/12/how-nodas-light-rail-connection-is-creating-a-new.html) that the recently opened Blue Line extension to UNC Charlotte might spur a similar boom in neighborhoods to the north.

The second factor behind South End’s prosperity is Charlotte’s population explosion. Around the time of the Blue Line’s opening, the Charlotte metro area was among the fastest growing in the country, if not the fastest. Going by Census figures, its population rose from 1.3 million in 2000 to 2.2 million in 2010, an increase of 66%. Much of this growth stemmed from an influx of millennials. By at least one [source](https://www.bizjournals.com/charlotte/news/2016/11/16/millennial-magnet-charlotte-ranks-as-top-city-in.html), from 2005 to 2015, the millennial cohort in Charlotte grew by 30%, faster than in any other American city. Conditions were ripe for a building boom. (It’s difficult to pin down why Charlotte in particular has become so attractive to young people. Most sources make reference to a combination of mild weather, low cost of living, and stable employment. Likely part of this perception is Charlotte’s status as the financial capital of the South. Bank of America is headquartered here; its gently-sloping corporate center, capped by a crown of spires, is a fixture of the city’s skyline. I also suspect that as rents reach ever more absurd heights in cities such as New York and San Francisco, Charlotte’s appeal will only grow.)

If you look back just over a century ago to Charlotte’s emergence as a New South city, you’ll find many parallels to South End’s current situation. Back then, Atherton Mill was [Atherton Cotton Mill](http://landmarkscommission.org/2016/10/06/atherton-cotton-mills/), one of many Southern cotton mills established in the years following Reconstruction, and the sixth to be established in Charlotte. (By 1906, there would be more than 300 mills within a 100-mile radius of the city.) It was part of a wave of industrialization and urbanization that proponents called the “New South.”

A quick history refresher: In the second half of the 19th century, a great technological divide separated North and South. Whereas the North had branched out into manufacturing and heavy industry, the South remained largely dependent on agriculture, and on one crop in particular---cotton. By 1860, [less than half](https://www.nps.gov/articles/industry-and-economy-during-the-civil-war.htm) of people living in the North were still engaged in agriculture, while in the South, the figure was above three-quarters. (Textbooks commonly cite this as a decisive factor in the outcome of the Civil War.) Even after the abolition of slavery, the Southern planter class maintained its dominance through the practice of sharecropping, by which inescapable debt tied black and poor white farmers to the land. It was against this backdrop that prominent Southerners began to call for a remake of the South along Northern, industrialized lines. The “New South” was the name of their vision.

Atherton Mill’s principal founder, [D. A. Tompkins](https://docsouth.unc.edu/nc/tompkins/bio.html), was a prolific industrialist and champion of the New South. He worked tirelessly to advance the cause of Southern industrialism, using every means at his disposal. Over the course of his career, his company had a hand in the construction of over 250 cotton oil mills, 150 electric plants and 100 cotton mills. “Prolific” doesn’t begin to capture it. When he wasn’t planning or overseeing construction, Tompkins busied himself with beating back such progressive ideas as child labor laws and compulsory schooling, which he saw as impediments to profit-making. He voiced his opinions through any of the three newspapers that he controlled, and through a series of ghost-written books, printed by his very own publishing house. The upheaval wrought by Tompkins and his colleagues was staggering: By the early 20th century, the Piedmont, bounded on the left by the Blue Ridge Mountains and on the right by the Atlantic coastal plain, would become the world’s most important textile manufacturing region and Charlotte, the region’s most important city.

Once a humble trading town, Charlotte had become ground zero for the emergence of an industrial working class in the South. Between 1880 and 1920, its population grew more than six fold, giving rise to the city’s first suburbs. Among the first was Dilworth, named after haberdasher-cum-investor and New South exponent Dilworth Edward Latta. (Here, I’m drawing upon Dan L. Morrill’s [detailed account](http://landmarkscommission.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/Dilworth.pdf) of Dilworth’s founding. Morrill, who is now 82, was a professor of history at UNCC and a champion of historic preservation in Charlotte.) In 1880, Latta and a handful of other prominent Charlotteans established the Charlotte Consolidated Construction Company, or “Four C’s.” Together, they purchased 442 acres of land just south of Charlotte and divided it with a grid of alleyways and arterial roads. To attract investment and drum up publicity, they commissioned the Edison Electric Company to lay the track for a streetcar line between downtown and their new neighborhood. The line terminated at a splendid public park dotted with fountains and flower gardens. This too was a creation of the Four C’s.

Charlotteans went hog wild for the new streetcar. Here’s how a Wilmington newspaper described the atmosphere at the opening: "The streets and yards fairly swarmed with people, each hurrahing and waving as the car passed along. Bouquets were sent to adorn the car with, and every one was wild with joy." Anyone who rode the Blue Line on its opening weekend can attest to a similar sort of slack, overwrought excitement. Trains were so packed that people waited upwards of two hours at the southern terminus for a free ride. A total of 60,000 trips were made the first day, on a line with only fifteen stops. An [article](https://web.archive.org/web/20120806124700/http://www.redorbit.com/news/business/1156477/light_rail_heavy_traffic_thousands_wait_in_lines_for_a/) from that weekend details the reactions of those amongst the crowd:

“Anna Katz of Cotswold said she was thrilled to ride light rail. When her southbound train began picking up speed as it left uptown, she smiled as though she were riding a roller coaster ... Some were impressed with the car’s high ceilings. When the train picked up speed between the East/West Boulevard and New Bern stations, one passenger shouted: ‘We’re taking off like an airplane.’ Another passenger noted the train was racing---and beating---a car driving along Old Pineville Road.” 

You’d think that after a century of technological advancement, we’d be past “Tall train go vroom,” but apparently, our technology is more sophisticated than we are.

Anyways, back to the story of Dilworth. The Four C’s initially struggled to find buyers for their newly renovated land. In its first year, the neighborhood remained largely vacant, save for a burst of sales in the first month. The turning point came in 1892, when the D.A. Tompkins Company announced the construction of Atherton Mill just south of Dilworth. The company also bought a block in Dilworth on which it would build housing for mill workers. This was the beginning of an industrial boom in the neighborhood, which by 1895 would include manufacturers of shirts, men’s trousers, textile supplies, cord and flour.

The housing that Atherton Mill provided for its workers was but one example of a pervasive phenomenon in the New South: [the mill village](https://www.historians.org/teaching-and-learning/teaching-resources-for-historians/teaching-and-learning-in-the-digital-age/the-history-of-the-americas/like-a-family-the-making-of-a-southern-cotton-mill-world/mill-village-and-factory-introduction). It was a way for mill owners to exert greater control over the lives of their workers and thus to extract from each worker her maximum productive potential. Nearly every aspect of life in the village revolved around the rhythms of the factory. New mothers brought their infants to work, feeding them during pauses in production. Older children spent much of their time on the factory floor, either playing with other children or helping family members with work. Education in the village school was free of charge, but only until seventh grade. Thus, by age 12, most children were working full-time.

Here’s how the Georgia State University Library describes working conditions:

“In the mills, families labored for bosses who drove them hard for 10 to 12 hours a day, six days a week. The factories were noisy, hot and dangerous. Lint floated in the air and collected on the hair and skin of the mill workers. After years of working in the mills many found that the lint had also settled in their lungs. The health problems that resulted could cripple or kill them.”

In the typical village, there was a constellation of organizations and social services, all funded by the mill, meant to keep workers satisfied and compliant. There were company-run stores, barber shops, clubs, nurseries, and baseball teams. In some villages, residents were surveilled by supervisors or village policemen on behalf of mill managers. Churches were headed by ministers on the mill’s payroll, whose preaching often hewed towards the company line. For their part, workers were not mere dupes, mindlessly falling for the mill’s system of social control. They recognized the conveniences and amenities for what they were: a means of ensuring workers’ ongoing participation in a brutal scheme to exploit their labor. Their attitude was often one of wary compliance, whereby they took part in company baseball teams and social clubs while maintaining their independence from the company’s message.

A similar phenomenon is taking shape in South End, minus the class consciousness. I find it interesting that when you take away the diners and the waitstaff, Futo Buta blends seamlessly into the “upscale” developments that surround it. Its barnyard chic, marked by a wood-and-steel materiality and a lack of rounded edges, is to many of its patrons an aspirational aesthetic---one that inspires the same socioeconomic longing as the Eames chair once did. So seamless is the new aesthetic regime that a young professional in South End might go from her living room or her [WeWork](https://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/wework-sharing-economy-labor-company-town) office, of which there are three in Charlotte, to Futo Buta and never have left the warm glow of an exposed light fixture. This is a level of control and insularity that mill owners could only have dreamed of. 

To be perfectly clear, none of this is the fault of Futo Buta. Nor am I pointing this out because I think their food is underwhelming. In fact, their food very much exceeded my expectations of take-out ramen. The duck confit buns with spiced honey and shavings of pickled carrot dripped rich with fat, yet they left no hint of oiliness. Strands of leek darted every which way, tumbling out as I took a bite. Unlidding the tonkotsu ramen, I was greeted by an onrushing of textures: rough-hewn slabs of blackened pork belly; self-similar manifolds of black fungus; and the swell of a delicate onsen egg. I eagerly await the day when I’ll be able to experience the same display against the backdrop of Futo Buta’s speckled earthenware, and not a squat plastic dish. I was missing the “[sticky-lipped intensity](https://www.seriouseats.com/2012/02/how-to-make-tonkotsu-ramen-broth-at-home-recipe.html),” as Kenji López-Alt puts it, of a traditional tonkotsu broth---gotten by simmering pork bones until they’ve given up their collagen---though it was still plenty satisfying.

The fire and ice ramen, featuring a hunk of smoked salmon crusted in mint, was obscured by a rather unceremonious pile of wilted scallion and a smattering of carrot scraps. By the wayside were two medallions of watermelon radish; I ended up eating these on their own, not quite understanding their purpose. It’s a real shame there wasn’t more of the broth! It was the essence of salmon-ness, distilled into a reddish concoction. Maybe the highlight of my meal was the hamachi kama, or collar of yellowtail tuna. On the fish, it sits right [beside](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ISjmcu-4EtU) the gills. It is shielded by copious fat, meaning that it can take a lot of heat without developing the wrung-out texture of, say, an overcooked fillet. I dug greedily into the hunk of burnished flesh, held together by strips of char, dunking morsels of it into a tart ponzu. 

\*\*\*

Anyways, I’ve worked on this essay for an altogether embarrassing amount of time, so I’ll leave it here. It’s summer, the sun is shining, and I can’t bear to write any more. What I’ll say in conclusion is that in order to understand the significance of a place like South End, we’ve got to find places to reside that are between total rejection and wholehearted embrace. There’s a lot to celebrate about the work that people are doing in South End. They’re making delicious food, brewing crazy good beers, and overall bringing a youthful energy to the city. But maybe that isn’t the whole story. There are deeply-rooted histories to the development boom that we see today in Charlotte, histories that if we’re not careful will come back to bite us. Maybe we have something to learn from the mindset of those early 20th-century mill workers, who found ways of participating while keeping a critical distance.

