---
layout: post
title: "Is Charlotte Enough?"
---
This was going to be my vegan/vegetarian week, but when I went to order from Luna’s Living Kitchen on Friday night, I found out they had closed because one of their employees had contracted COVID-19. (On an unrelated note, I think it’s interesting how quickly we, the lay public, have adopted terms like “COVID-19,” “social distancing,” and “immunocompromised.” Soon after the first lockdowns hit, it seemed like everybody and their grandma was talking like the spokesperson of a public health department. The thing is, does the average person even understand how a virus works? Does he understand, *medically*, what it means to be “immunocompromised?” Or what a ventilator even does? It seems that for most people, these words are almost completely free of content. I suspect part of the reason they’ve caught on so widely is because they gave us the chance to play the scientist. We got off on the authority we felt when we told our Facebook friends to “flatten the curve” or when we warned others about the prevalence of “asymptomatic” cases. A similar thing is taking place in politics right now---particularly in left-liberal media circles. We throw around big words because we like the way they make us feel---self-assured, masterful, in-control. This is not a healthy relationship to language.)

My first visit was to Sabor Latin Street Grill. It’s a local chain with fourteen locations all across the Charlotte metropolitan area. For many Charlotteans, myself included, Sabor is their only contact with Latin American cuisine. That is, beside Chipotle. I went to the original location in Elizabeth for dinner with my friend Elise. It was set to pour but in a stroke of luck, not a single drop of rain fell that night. By eight o’clock, it had even cleared up somewhat. Elise is a vegetarian (she said she’s trying to go vegan) so ours was a meatless dinner. I wasn’t expecting much of the tofu crumble in the “autenticos” tacos or the arepa filled with only sautéed veggies and a helping of salsa rosada but man was I mistaken.

The tacos were a pretty minimal affair, consisting of a protein topped with some diced white onion and cilantro. Even so, I was surprised at how satisfying they were, from the dull tang of the tortillas to the bits of ruddy spiced tofu. The arepa was possessed of a similar unassuming confidence. Its texture was a cross between a corn chip and a slice of untoasted bread, in the best possible way. Under the tooth, it flaked without being dry or doughy. Filling be damned, it was a good arepa, one I would have gladly eaten on its own. We had also ordered some fried plantains, which were pleasantly brown but not at all sodden with oil, and a couple cream-filled churros (also good). The quinoa grain bowl we tried was just so-so, but it wasn’t the reason we’d come. Elise and I agreed that this was some of the best food we’d had in some time. Our conversation was punctuated by emphatic interjections of “Wow, this is so good,” followed by satisfied nods of the head. It seemed we couldn’t go half an hour without remarking on the experience.

Another place worth eating at: Fern, or more accurately “Fern, Flavors from the Garden.” They’re a vegetarian restaurant located in a small shopping complex in Dilworth. I’d passed it a million times biking to the park or heading uptown, but I’d never bothered to check it out. I always assumed it was one of those stuffy, uninspired places that exists only to fill a niche. Again, I was wrong. Their menu right now seems to be more limited than usual. I had wanted to try their mushroom ricotta toast or their carrot cake with candied walnuts that I would pick off, but neither was available when I ordered. No matter. Their buffalo cauliflower, a dish that I’m usually not inclined to order, was delicious. This was not the sodden, over-spiced dish that I’d come to associate with Buzzfeed tasty videos. Instead, it was crunchy and subtle and liberal with the dill.

Their mushroom bolognese was a dead ringer for the usual ground beef version. It hit all the right notes of savory, tomato-ness. Fresh pasta is always a plus. Also great were the blackened brussel sprouts doused in a tamari glaze (tamari is soy sauce’s richer, less saline cousin) and the black bean burger with black bean aioli. I won’t subject you to any more descriptions of how it tasted or how it felt on the tongue. I’m getting pretty tired of it myself. I mean, each week it’s like “How many synonyms can I come up with for ‘tasty?’” Suffice it to say I liked Fern a lot and you ought to eat there.

The final restaurant of the week was Copper, which is located in an elegant house off South Blvd, near South End. I thought to try it when I found out that the place I’d originally had in mind, Luna’s Living Kitchen, was temporarily closed. It’s purportedly the best Indian restaurant in Charlotte. Personally, I think it’s pretty good. I think I’m more interested in my own reactions to it than the food itself. As I was scarfing down the lamb kuzhambu, which is a saucy, tamarind-based dish common in Sri Lanka and the south of India, and the basket-like potli samosas, I kept thinking to myself “Is this authentic,” meaning “Am I allowed to enjoy it?” Sure, the food that Copper serves is a limited cross-section of India’s regional cuisines, but like what do you expect? This is one of few Indian restaurants in a not particularly adventurous city, at least when it comes to food. For the most part, “authenticity” exists only in large urban centers with significant international migration.

Visiting Copper definitely revealed some of the cracks in my identity as a Charlottean. If I’m being honest, the reason I started on this project was mostly to squelch some uncomfortable feelings I’d been having. The mindset among many of my friends is that well, Charlotte might be a nice place to live and all, but is it really that interesting? Where’s the culture? Where’s the art? This sort of mindset is closer to my own thinking than I’d often like to admit. I find that no matter how much I learn about Charlotte’s history or about the rich and varied neighborhoods that make it up, I can’t help but think “Is this all there is?” I don’t pretend that this is some deep truth about Charlotte, or that my anxieties are shared by all Charlotteans. When you’ve got a career and a family and other things to worry about, I imagine that the stress falls differently on different things. So what if the hottest exhibitions aren’t coming to the Mint Museum or there isn’t so much of a multicultural milieu? At least I’ve got a roof over my head and enough to do on the weekends.

I don’t have any truck with those that don’t share my concerns. Part of the reason I’m so concerned about the soul of Charlotte is to do with my own anxieties about finding “home.” Admittedly, “home” is something of a cliche in contemporary cultural criticism, but hear me out. My parents and I moved from London to Charlotte when I was about five. (My sister, who is much older than me, stuck it out in England.) My parents along with my sister were among the first to leave China for the West in the aftermath of the Cultural Revolution. They settled in England not knowing a lick of English. I don’t know much about what happened in between then and 2005, when we came to North Carolina, but it was probably a confusing time for everyone involved. In the States, we lived a strange pantomime of American life. I have a distinct memory of playing catch with my dad in the parking lot of a minor university that was across from our apartment complex. Not a baseball, mind you, but one of those inflatable bouncy balls from gym class. I also remember having one of those wooden ducks-on-a-stick with linoleum feet that I would push around that same parking lot. I don’t think anything since has made me so stupidly happy as that duck did. Now whenever I think about that goddamn duck, I am filled with inexplicable pathos. I suspect that this is something other Chinese-American kids can identify with---a low-grade sadness over nothing in particular.

If Charlotte is in fact an interesting place, then at least all of the heartbreak will have been for *something*. But if my friends are right and Charlotte is really just another soulless New South city, then what does that make me? A chump? Was I so desperate for a place to call “home” that I fell into the arms of the first city that would have me? Do I really love Charlotte, or is that simply a way of redeeming my childhood dislocation by giving it a teleological end?

Stay tuned for updates!

