---
layout: post
title: "Linck Fellowship Statement"
---
Charlotte, North Carolina has, in the past decade, undergone massive economic and infrastructural shifts, stemming from an influx of millenials and a technology revival. In 2015, over ten thousand people ages twenty to thirty-five moved into Charlotte, more than anywhere else in the nation. This has brought a wave, among other things, of gentrification and displacement and intensified the city's affordable housing crisis. You can't walk down the block without tripping over a condo development or craft brewery. A new youthful affluence permeates the cultural output of the city, and this is perhaps most apparent in the food that is being prepared.

In some ways, the restaurant scene in Charlotte is more adventurous and cosmopolitan than it once was: taquerias, ramen shops, Asian fusion, gastropubs, and New American fare. More challenging varieties of fruit and veg, more inventive vegan and vegetarian options, and broader perspectives on Mexican cuisine are on the menu, not to mention a surfeit of pork belly—charred, seared, glazed, roasted, and crisped. A small part of me is encouraged by these developments. Textures and aromas that used to be on the edges of the mainstream are asserting themselves in interesting new ways.

At the same time, I am haunted by an unshakeable sense of banality, or, to put it skeptically, the sense that despite the seeming dynamism all around me, it is really all the same, right down to the design of the menus and the insipid hipness that suffuses the countrified dining rooms. Here, then, is the question: Is Charlotte's emerging culinary consensus a move towards openness and experimentation, and thus a cause for excitement, or is it just that—a consensus, whose vitality is more a pretense than a practice? Has it brought about an expansion of tastes, or has its effect been, as I am starting to suspect, mainly to assuage feelings of listlessness and unease brought about by extraordinary growth and disruption? Now might seem like an odd time to be asking this, as restaurants nationwide close their doors to the public, but, if anything, our current crisis heightens the importance of critical engagement rather than diminishing it.

To this end, I want to offer a description of the food that is being cooked and consumed all around me, whether served on sodden paper plates or on hand-wrought earthenware, whether out in the open or in painstakingly crafted interiors. This summer, as Charlotte emerges from a period of mass closures and social distancing, I’ll be on the frontlines of the culinary recovery. Over the course of eight weeks, I plan to visit a series of twenty-six eateries, as outlined in the schedule below. The establishments I’ve identified run the gamut from food stalls and joints tucked into strip malls to fast-casual and more proper, sit-down affairs. They are spread across the city but especially concentrated in the South End and Plaza Midwood neighborhoods, which have seen intense development in recent years. Each week follows a theme (“New Takes on East Asian,” “Barbeque”), but even within each theme, there are substantial differences in approach and outlook.

At the conclusion of each week, I will post a summary of my findings at trough.club, in the style of a blog. Part food criticism, part cultural critique, these posts will be devoted to chronicling and examining the meals I’ve eaten that week: What was my opinion of the food? Was it flavorful? Did it take risks? Furthermore, having eaten these meals and visited these places, what more do I understand about the state of culture in Charlotte? Expect plenty of photos. What will emerge at the end of my eight weeks is a snapshot of Charlotte in 2020, taken as the city manages two tremendous upheavals—the first wrought by sickness and the second by its own prosperity.

This project follows from a great deal of preparation, conducted over multiple semesters. If I had to put a start date on this journey, I’d say it began with the final paper for Radical Classics, taught by Mordechai Levy-Eichel in my sophomore fall. Bringing together the thought of Matthew Arnold with that of contemporary writers, including Trilling, Sontag, and Andrea Long Chu, I began to grapple with the joys and difficulties of cultural criticism, and how it may be of help to our modern situation. What might a criticism look like that brings us into closer acquaintance with our outrage, excitement, and bewilderment, instead of erecting false worlds of “meaning” and interpretation?

The following semester, in Margaret Spillane’s workshop on arts criticism, I turned my attention to the level of the sentence. In each review, Professor Spillane asked us to extract from an experience its most essential image, and, to that end, to linger on the potency of each word and turn of phrase. Could we convey our critical opinion through a sheer sense of (dis)pleasure, without resorting to anything so unimaginative as "good" or "bad?" The workshop also functioned as a crash course in professional criticism, meaning that we were expected to abide by a rigorous schedule of events and at every event, to take copious notes on the experience.

My aim: that I might get a better grasp of the transformations that are gripping not only Charlotte but any number of American cities, and, along the way, to discover some good—perhaps even *exceptional*—food.
