---
layout: post
title: "Kindred"
---
This week I had the unqualified pleasure of visiting Kindred, located 30 minutes north of Charlotte in the college town of Davidson.

Before I get into the food, I’d like to tell you about the drive up to Davidson. It’s a straight shot up I-77. An exit dumps you right into town center, or close enough. I’m not a particularly confident driver, so I asked my dad to ride along. Nowadays, I’m pretty comfortable making my way around Charlotte, but highways still manage to strike a particular fear in me. Being 20, almost 21, and wanting your dad to help you with highways doesn’t feel great, I have to admit. If I’d been born at a different place and time, maybe I wouldn’t need someone in the passenger seat. Maybe I’d be able to drive whenever and wherever my heart desired. Then again, I think I’m pretty cute, and the thought of being anybody else besides myself is pretty off-putting.

I very secretly admire good drivers---those who whip into their parking spot without a second thought or pull up to the curb as if approaching an old friend. I understand that fluency takes time. With experience comes confidence. What are some other forms of confidence? Here are a couple that come to mind: Knowing what to do with your mouth when you pass somebody on the sidewalk. Giving the right sort of hug. Taking credit for an idea, even if it’s not entirely your own. Not responding too earnestly when somebody asks “How are you?” For most native-born Americans, these things come naturally. They are as natural as breathing. Sometimes, it feels that driving is just another one of these things. I often feel that my friends didn’t learn to drive so much as they picked it up one day, like picking up a social cue. How come I didn’t pick it up?

The answer is pretty clear. On the way home from Kindred, I asked my dad when he learned to drive. He said it must have been in his forties, not long after he had arrived in the UK. I asked him, did he have help? He said he had had a driving course but that afterwards, he was on his own. It must have been hard to start in your forties, without someone in the passenger seat to offer reassurance, I said. It was hard, he said. That’s pretty much where the conversation ended. I said I was glad I had him to help me. Him being the person that he is, he didn’t have much to say to this.

If you ran a study on the factors that influence a person’s driving patterns, I’m sure that parental influence would come out near the top. What you see as the value and significance of driving as a cultural practice, you will surely pass down to your children. In my parents’ minds, there wasn’t much use to me driving in high school. It didn’t occur to them, or to me, that as an American teenager, I might get a job at the grocery store or I might want to loiter in a Target parking lot. Thus, why would I need to drive? Some days, I’m angry that I didn’t get to experience the same rites of passage my native-born friends did. Depending on the day, it’s either my fault or my parents’ fault. I’m resentful that the values of deference and respect for authority are not the ones that I’m expected to have as a member of the American meritocracy. I often wonder, “Why can’t I go to the store without feeling culturally outgunned?”

For all the celebratory narratives that have emerged in recent years about the fundamental dignity or creativity of immigrants, I don’t think the immigrants are feeling any better about themselves. Since the 2016 election, I’ve seen no shortage of lawn signs saying things like “Immigrants are welcome here” or “No matter where you are from, we’re glad that you’re our neighbor.” (I very much hope that the people who bought these signs have more sophisticated beliefs than “Immigrants good.”) The impulse is real. When you have a president who’s stoking ethnonationalist fervor, it’s understandable that some people might want to offer a different, more affirming message. The thing is, I don’t even like being an immigrant half the time. Here are some adjectives that describe my immigrant experience: awkward, embarrassing, alienated, melancholy.

Strangely enough, it’s when I visit a place like Kindred that I feel most hopeful for a genuinely sophisticated culture that might actually satisfy me in a way that political slogans can’t. At Kindred, they’re making some intriguing food---food that is more than good, food that you would eat again not just because it was good but because you’re convinced you haven’t yet tasted it fully. It’s food that *stands up* to experience. I’ll single out two dishes that I thought were exceptional, only because this is supposed to be a food review (I detest overwrought food-prose, but I write it anyway): First, their plate of AB Vannoy ham and “farmhouse” cheeses. In its cardboard take-out tin, the ham sat folded onto itself as if it were a scrap of linen that had fallen onto the floor of an upholsterer’s workshop. Its veins of fat dispersed on the tongue into a glob of essential meatiness. Just as good was the Beemster gouda, which somehow managed to cram the entire flavor profile of a pepperoni pizza into cube form.

Second, the squid ink conchiglie with georgie royal red shrimp and sea urchin butter. Never before has a plate of pasta implanted such a persistent memory in my mind. I can vividly recall the flesh of the shrimp and the distinct marine sumptuousness lended to the sauce by the pulverized sea urchin. This, complemented by the platonic al dente of the jet black shells. (Ok, I'm done with the food-prose, maybe for the rest of my life.)

It is on this hopeful note that I end this summer’s project. I don’t have any profound realization about culture or the immigrant spirit to relate to you at this juncture. What I do know is that I don’t want to write any more. I find writing to be a drag. It is difficult and infuriating and only sometimes rewarding. I am mostly indifferent to the things I’ve written this summer. Thank you and goodbye.
