---
layout: post
title: "My Waning Sense of Propriety"
---
Only one restaurant this week! Well, more like one and a half. My first trip was back to The Stanley, to pick up some ground beef and NC shrimp I had ordered from their butcher shop. They’re one of many restaurants across the country that have opened up their fridges and freezers to the public, most likely in an attempt to claw back some of their losses. It’s a smart move on a couple levels. First of all, less food goes to waste. Secondly, and I think more significantly, it offers restaurant-goers a peek into the workings of a professional kitchen. If there’s one good thing to come out of the pandemic, it’s that people have gotten the chance to see just how much labor and logistics it takes to run a restaurant.

I remember walking into the dining room of Futo Buta two months ago, when the tables had been replaced with all manner of kitchen appliances and equipment. There were carafes, earthenware dishes, milk crates, kegs waiting for pickup. Anyone coming to pick up their food would have seen all this on display. This in my mind is a good thing. When people see how something works, it becomes less mystical, and perhaps it loses some of its charm, but ultimately, it’s a more honest relationship to the thing. I hope that people will come out of this current period with a bit more appreciation for the efforts of their chefs and servers.

I’ll leave the subject there because I find most coronavirus commentary pretty formulaic. I mean what is there to say? Most of the reporting I’ve heard goes something like this: “We took X for granted, and it sucks that we can’t have X any more.” The more progressive version of this is, “We took X for granted, and we really ought to be more appreciative of it in the future.” Or it goes, “The pandemic exposed Y vulnerability that was already pretty obvious, but *we can’t brush it under the rug any longer.*” Will things actually change? Will we make the reforms that we said were so necessary? Probably not. Look, I understand that sometimes you just have to get the facts out there and keep people informed. That’s just what has to be done. For the time being though, I’ll not be listening to the news. I’ve been getting into podcasts again! Joe Rogan is really good.

My second trip of the week was to the Matthews farmers’ market, to pick up some assorted veggies I had ordered from a Wild Hope Farm. Shit’s expensive. I thought it’d make for an interesting blog post, so I ordered some. I got a pint of tomatoes, a dozen eggs, okra, sunflower microgreens, a pint of baby beets, and a bundle of lemon balm. I’m a sucker for anything citrus. Turns out there’s nothing you can do with lemon balm. Your two options are tea or ice cream, and I’m not about to make ice cream at home. The beets were another aspirational purchase. I dislike beets. They serve no purpose. The sunflower microgreens were interesting. They cook in the blink of an eye. Thirty seconds in a hot pan with some olive oil and garlic they’re done. They’ve got a seed-y thing going on, like a sunflower seed LaCroix. They taste like seeds in another room.

The meat from The Stanley was the best we had had in a while. The ground beef wasn’t the fatty, 80/20 sort you usually find at the grocery store. It was much leaner and more densely packed, with a healthy brick-red color. Definitely bad for burgers. It made great potstickers though, or is it dumplings? Do I care? The shrimp---also great. We tossed them with some olive oil, cumin, chili powder, garlic and lemon juice and grilled them.

My third visit was to the Mad Greek, a Greek-American diner that’s been run for thirty years by the Limberakis family. I’d passed it a million times on the way to Costco, and I’d always had the sense that it was somewhere important, not just some run-of-the-mill diner. Luckly, on Wednesday, I got the chance to try it out. I carried out a splendid array of appetizers---stuffed grape leaves, hummus and spanakopita, gyro meat, all accompanied by tzatziki, raw veg, and a serving of pita---as well as a chicken pita sandwich and a slice of galaktoboureko, which is filo dough baked in a custard. Lighter than a bread pudding, sturdier than tres leches, and jesus wouldn’t it be nice to have a third contrast?

I’m honestly so shocked by how good it all was. There was a distinct rough-hewn, self-assured vibe to the food. Does that make sense? It was a diner after all, and one that had been running continuously for over thirty years, barring a name change and a recent rebranding effort. The hummus wasn’t perfectly homogenized like the stuff you get at the store. You knew that it came from a pea, or is it a bean? A scrap of pita dug hungrily into the mound was enough to satisfy and comfort. Also wholesome: two pieces of gyro shaving in pita, with a dollop of yogurt-y tzatziki. Please DoorDash me more grape leaves. Ask the driver to fling them out the passenger-side window straight into my gaping maw. If you’re in town and you’re in need of some place to take solace, go to The Mad Greek.

Next week: ???

